So all of this boils down to is,
how do I basically differentiate?
How do I stand out from
the competitors in the marketplace?
And I can stand out with my features and
functionality by solving and
addressing a problem that isn't
being addressed by the competitors.
And market research and user feedback
can help you find problems with your
competitors that they haven't solved, or
that they're addressing
inadequately that you can address.
You can enhance existing features.
You can take something that is already
done by competitors and do it faster in
a more user-friendly way or
with more powerful features built into it.
You could differentiate
with technology as well,
using emerging technologies like
the AI example I gave or with offering
better security than your competitors, or
improve performance over your competitors.
You can differentiate with
user experience, right?
You can provide that better on-board
experience that I was talking
about earlier.
You can ensure that those repeat actions
that people are taking again and
again in your app are not painful,
are not annoying.
You can ensure that your apps work
on the broadest range of devices and
for the broadest possible
audience that you
are targeting within
the context of your targeting.
But the big one, of course,
is you can differentiate with pricing.
And often it comes back to
a conversation around pricing.
Pricing is one of
the hardest things to do.
And there are lots of ways,
although we'll talk about pricing many
times through this course, but you can
use pricing as a way of differentiating
yourself from the competition.
So for example, you can use a one-off
payment for your product while everybody
else does subscriptions, people are all
getting sick of yet another subscription.
So maybe you could do
a one-off option instead.
Maybe you could offer a freemium version,
right,
there's a free trial that
can do the basics and
it can be a great way of establishing
yourself in a crowded marketplace.
You might wanna go entirely free, right?
There is a place for that.
And actually, there's some
interesting research that says,
if you ask for tips or
for donations, actually,
that can be a way of running
a smaller business, right?
I mean,
it wouldn't scale particularly well, but
if you're just creating something for
a bit of fun and you wanna make a little
bit of money off of it on the side, then
tips and donations could work for you.
Or long side that I guess,
is the pay as much as you like
option which is basically the same thing,
isn't it?
And then there's the value added services
or value added features that you could.
So the core offering might
be a very low price but
you charge for extras that get
added on to it in various ways.
So there are ways of doing
pricing differently to
your competitors that may appeal
to a certain market group.
So, one of the big things that you see
from well-established competitors in
the marketplace, is they've added feature
after feature after feature over time,
and they're charging for
all of this as a big bundle.
And from a user's perspective,
you go along and say, I wanna do that,
but I don't care about the rest.
I don't wanna be paying for
all of the rest, right?
And so there's an opportunity there.
There are lots of different
ways of working with pricing.
Pricing is a really complicated issue that
we will be coming back to because it is
the trickiest thing to get right